README.md, before:

# Tanuki

A system for organizing, browsing, and searching assets, primarily images and videos. Written in [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) and [Flutter](https://flutter.dev) with a [GraphQL](https://graphql.org) wire protocol. Metadata is stored in [RocksDB](https://rocksdb.org) and file content is stored unmodified within a date/time formatted directory structure.

## Building and Testing

### Prerequisites

* [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) stable (2021 edition)
* [Flutter](https://flutter.dev) **stable** channel
* [Clang](https://clang.llvm.org) (version 5.0 or higher, as dictated by [rust-bindgen](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-bindgen))

### Initial Setup

Use [fvm](https://pub.dev/packages/fvm) to select a specific version of Flutter
to be installed and used by the application. This is the most reliable method
and produces consistent results when building the application.

```shell
brew install dart
pub global activate fvm
fvm install stable
fvm flutter config --enable-web
```

#### Windows

Download the [Microsoft C++ Build Tools](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/visual-cpp-build-tools/) and select the `MSVC ... build tools` (latest version with appropriate architecture) and `Windows 11 SDK` (or `10` if using Windows 10).

### Building, Testing, Starting the Backend

```shell
cargo update
cargo build
cargo test
RUST_LOG=info cargo run --release
```

For more verbose debugging output, use `RUST_LOG=debug` in the command above.
For extremely verbose logging, use `RUST_LOG=trace` which will dump large
volumes of output.

### Building, Testing, Starting the Frontend

```shell
fvm flutter pub get
fvm flutter pub run environment_config:generate
fvm flutter test
fvm flutter run -d chrome
```

### environment_config

The frontend has some configuration that is set up at build time using the
[environment_config](https://pub.dev/packages/environment_config) package. The
generated file (`lib/environment_config.dart`) is not version controlled, and
the values can be set at build-time using either command-line arguments or
environment variables. See the `pubspec.yaml` for the names and the
`environment_config` README for instructions.

## Tools

### Finding Outdated Crates

Use https://github.com/kbknapp/cargo-outdated and run `cargo outdated -R`

## Origin of the name

A tanuki is a racoon dog native to Japan, and may also refer to the [Bake-danuki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bake-danuki), a shape-shifting supernatural being of Japanese folklore. That has nothing to do with this project, but the name is unique and it makes for a cute mascot.

Commit message:

Replace Flutter with Leptos
Leptos is a fine-grained reactive web framework written in Rust, and it is
very fast and produces smaller bundles than Flutter.

Some parts of the GraphQL interface have been removed as Leptos relies on
REST for the client/server communication.

Known issues: the upload page will crash on browser reload.

cargo leptos test passes

README.md, after:

# Tanuki

An application for collecting, tagging, browsing, and searching assets, primarily images and videos. Written in [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) with a [Leptos](https://leptos.dev) powered front-end and limited [GraphQL](https://graphql.org) support. Metadata is stored in [RocksDB](https://rocksdb.org) and file content is stored unmodified within a date/time formatted directory structure.

## Building and Testing

### Prerequisites

* [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) stable (2021 edition)
* [Clang](https://clang.llvm.org) (version 5.0 or higher, as dictated by [rust-bindgen](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-bindgen))

### Initial Setup

These commands need to be run one time before building this project:

```shell
cargo install cargo-leptos
rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown
```

#### Windows

Download the [Microsoft C++ Build Tools](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/visual-cpp-build-tools/) and select the `MSVC ... build tools` (latest version with appropriate architecture) and `Windows 11 SDK` (or `10` if using Windows 10).

### Testing

Run both the backend and front-end tests with one command:

```shell
cargo leptos test
```

### Starting the server locally

```shell
cargo leptos watch
```

The server will be listening at `http://localhost:3000`

The GraphiQL interface is available at `http://localhost:3000/graphiql`

## Tools

### Formatting

Use `cargo fmt` to format all of the Rust code.

Use `leptosfmt` to format the client-side code, like so:

```shell
leptosfmt src/preso/leptos/client/**/*.rs
```

### Finding Outdated Crates

Use https://github.com/kbknapp/cargo-outdated and run `cargo outdated -R`

## Origin of the name

A tanuki is a racoon dog native to Japan, and may also refer to the [Bake-danuki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bake-danuki), a shape-shifting supernatural being of Japanese folklore. That has nothing to do with this project, but the name is unique and it makes for a cute mascot.
